Mandy is a meteorographer. Yes a meteorographer, and yes, he made up the field, but no, it has nothing to do with plotting meteors in ours our any other solar system and no, it has nothing to do with writing about the life and times of meteors either. Yes, Mandy is a he, yet no, Mandy is not his true given name; he changed it because he always wanted a toward-the-feminine leaning, fringe unisex name because although Mandy is not a feminist nor communist, he never understood why there had to be a huge social precipice between genders, and no, that is not why Mandy sometimes wore skirts and sun dresses; he did this because he thinks they are comfortable so why shouldn’t he be comfortable flying in his doorless Cesna Citation with his goggles on and the wind going up his legs?

Mandy was a meteorographer. He studied the layout of clouds like a topographer does the terrain because he thinks there must be some important cause or maybe effect, yet he does not know what. He thought he knew where the secret was hidden, though, and it had something to do with sucking a mountainous (hence, ography) cumulonimbus into a bottle and releasing it somewhere entirely else because, you see, the clouds shape, its identity, is related to where the cloud is. It’s called air tectonics. So: displace a cloud and see what happens, like one would a mountain or a river, if one could, which one cannot. It is (hypothesis) like introducing some foreign species of frog or fish into an ecosystem and watching them destroy it. Will the Cumulonimbus Clobber the Climate? We don’t know, but that is the title for the essay he would have written when he found out.

I am Viktor The Physicist-cum-Door-to-Door-Vacuum-Salesman and no, I didn’t make up that field, per se, as much as its just a plain logical title, so no, I won’t vitiate that grin or groan because, yes, I sell boutique vacuum cleaners that work really well and have a slightly post-modern aesthetic, though, no, not that I consider myself po-mo; I am just a little odd. Viktor is my real name, yes, and I feel my use of a Viktor the… epithet identifier is appropriate because no… or yes… whichever, I don’t know of any other Physicists-cum-Door-to-Door-Vacuum-Salesmen and we in the science community know precisely where each other sniff and how close each other’s noses get.

So when Mandy let out word that he wanted a really, really good vacuum cleaner—for which there was not even one on the market—by way of a half page ad in a prominent Science Journal, the buzz quickly picked up that he probably didn’t need this vacuum for home use and that he thought he could buy one and thus having paid for it, use it for his own means without officially collaborating with the maker—whom could only be myself—and thus: keep the credit. And I call it buzz because this type of gossip is never, ever actually vocalized, never audible. We buzz; we just know, we scientists, as if by some metaphysical connection. The closer we stand to each other, the more we silently vibrate science gossip.

So under the guise of professional brotherhood I offered very amicably to make Mandy a really, really, really good vacuum cleaner and give it him for free. Classic collabo-move, though no, nobody called me on it, yet yes, of course everybody just knew, because scientists buzz. We are tacit tacticians. Yes, this is why beautiful women uncharacteristically become enamored with us—we quiet pontificating intellectuals—and yes, why they invariably divorce us. I however am divorced because I could not resist the allure of a some house-wife, fingers drooling, caressing one of my machines.

##

Now that the imprimis is out of the way, allow me to fast forward through some of the banalities of scientific courtship like when Mandy landed his door-less Cesna Citation, gaudily painted like a hot-rod burning at the front except, in his case, the front of his vehicle was "nuclei condensing" into cloud-form at the front—yes, he landed this airplane in my backyard and with his windswept hair hopped out before the propeller had fully stopped so that his dainty yellow sun dress flapped about his long, tawny, thin legs like a flag caught against stilts in a hurricane. He had not removed his brown leather goggles when he shook my hand and commenced our first personal meeting.

Of course, we already knew of each other’s modest achievements but we enquired about them and then lauded each other anyway. Mandy had made thousands and thousands of topographical cloud maps with very a slow process involving very soft and sensitive Doppler radars and he was still trying furiously to contrive some grand unifying principle to it all (no relation to the grand unifying principle of the universe, despite how much he wished). This made him technically, by way of buzzing agreement, a mad-scientist and we all knew he would fail, go nuts, die and then be posthumously venerated by virtue of being idiotically prolific. I, like many do upon meeting him, told him how his science transcended into art, what with the beauty of his maps. He is a renowned cloud photographer to boot.

"And yours…" Mandy paused to retrieve the proper way to say what was going to say. All scientists do this to me because, for one, the nature of my discovery and, for two, because most scientists lack a proper fluidity of tongue and thought in social situations. Mandy used this pause as an opportunity to finally remove his goggles, though without deigning to pretend that was the sole impetus for the pause in the first place.

"It was quite a breakthrough," he said. In the interest of proper disclosure, yes, I invented a devastating device that needed not chemical reactions nor nuclear fussing. I constructed a container of absolutely nothing—of less that nothing (or Negative Nothing (NN)), to be precise—that was spherical in basic design except with long spires stretching from the thing like a puffer fish, which was the key to supporting the more than perfect vacuum inside; and this device, when "detonated" would lose its structural integrity on purpose and suck with such an implosive hunger that a 50 story building in which the device was ensconced would buckle into itself, lose its own poise and falter. I’ll let you imagine the implications, but the military began using it for its obvious offensive potential but also because it could knock anything from a tank to an ICBM off track and also, theoretically, create an equally opposite effect to the crunching needed for nuclear fusion—that is: an H-bomb.

Not the proudest of what my breakthrough could foment, being literally and figuratively myopic, as all scientists are, I attempted to create a peace prize named after my invention’s inventor but yes, it turns out that an award like that already exists. So now I can only hope that somebody else in the near future implements my invention in such a way which will garner the kind of affection to me needed to win a Nobel. Incidentally, what Mandy wanted—no needed—from me was pretty much just that.

Let me elucidate like this: nuclear fusion, when uncontrolled, causes a lot of damage. Yet if we could control it, a bucket of water could power Chicago—home of the H-Bomb—for six years! The Vikuum, my invention, is similar in that it cannot be controlled once the detonation is activated. Mandy needed me to collect the magnificent suction of the Vikuum to instantaneously gulp down a cloud the size of Texas.

##

My commercial vacuums come in three tiers of quality: Pretty Good, Good and Really Good. (Scientists find humor, but more often a kind of strange, charming humanness in incorporating plain-speak for discoveries.) I also have a burgeoning line of farming equipment that utilizes thousands of tiny implosions to till soil or mulch just about anything. I also have vacuums used in drilling, fishing, mining and a couple of companies have paid top-dollar in royalties to use my technology for making very potent "fire crackers" for which no state government has any legal grounds to prohibit.

The vacuums all sit on a half spherical base and have one, two or three full spheres extending upward and a fin coming from the top most sphere, which curves back to become the handle. The Really Good model comes, if so desired, in mother-of-pearl because the entire unit resembles the cross section of a necklace. The Really Good model can clean any hard surface floor up to two-thousand square-feet without even being moved hence-and-fro like ordinary vacuums. It is not recommended for corruptible surfaces like linoleum or shag.

The technology to suck a Texas-sized cloud is achievable—that is just an issue of size. Collecting it all, very much on the contrary, was just inconceivable. But Mandy persevered, which is to say he bugged me a lot. I kept the enterprise in the back of my mind, mulling over it from time to time, more-so when a monthly meeting with Mandy was imminent. 

A year after the Spring Mandy had first landed in my backyard, he did so again. He had been doing so every month. This time he didn’t get out of his washed and polished-for the occasion of picking me up, as always—Cesna Citation. He waved me over and bade me get in so he could fly us up to Oregon to eat at his favorite costal restaurant, The Coveted Cove. The Cesna had leather upholstered chairs and dashboard. Mandy was wearing a red skirt, patched with various black shapes and a puce and white floral Hawaiian shirt that was unbuttoned completely. He was wearing goggles and offered me a pair, which I put on. 

While in the air Mandy watched the passing clouds with the kind of beautiful longing of somebody wistfully ruminating the days of childhood. He pointed at micro-formations which he himself had named but that nobody in any similar field acknowledged, told me how clouds didn’t adhere to natural forces in the same way as everything else in the world did. That they were the closest manifestation of freedom. He said the wind didn’t dictate their movement but that they, sail-boat like, morphed to adapt the wind for moving toward wherever their destination.

We made a quick descent over a high coastal cliff and Mandy radioed the Matre’d for permission to land which was not immediately granted so we had to circle the restaurant for about ten minutes, chasing another couple of planes waiting to land. The matre’d’s nasally voice came on a twice more to ask if we’d like air-to-air valet, which I declined for us, and then again to check our vectors and call us in. Then we landed and taxied through the parking lot and got a nice space overlooking the setting sun and the purples and oranges it hurled over the ocean. 

The Coveted Cove was a mixture of rustic and modern architecture. Dark dense wood braces and fixtures and otherwise all window. The windows allowed an idyll view in almost all directions. The clientele were the same amalgamation: those that flew the Leer jets dressed in suits and designer clothing and we from the prop-set wore sandals and jeans and sun dresses. 

Mandy was greeted by name at the door and I was introduced informally and we were taken to our seats. We sat in humid silence and contemplated the menu. Mandy ordered some fantastic Chilean Cabernet and some steamed mussels in a beur blanc sauce and we made our dinner orders. We hadn’t said anything but pleasantries to one another until Mandy finally took off his goggles and revealed eyes that looked like a child’s compared to his perpetually windblown face, and said "Viktor--" and I cut him off, knowing what he would say or, nevertheless, at least the near defeated hope in how he would say it, and said "Mandy--" and our waiter cut me off and said "Mmm, steamed mussels—I don’t think you’ll be disappointed gentleman!" 

"Can we get another plate for the shells?" I asked.

"Keep the shells to the side until you’re finished," said the waiter. "And after you throw up everything you just ate into the bowl, toss the shells in with it." The waiter winked at me and took his leave.

"Strange," I said.

We dug into the bowl of mussels barehanded and dug into the shells with our little forks. The sun was just peaking up above the edge of the world in a way to make the windows seem aglow at the edges. I could hear the slow, dull wail of the waves against the rocks. Occasionally the whir of airplane engines beat through the noise of the restaurant. We ate our appetizer slowly with our faces down, not looking at each other and eventually all the peripheral noises faded far away so that all I could hear was the squishy sound of my chewing and the light clap of shells on the table, the clink of our forks against our plates. The mussels were yummy.

When we finished I looked up and saw Mandy. The last of the sun made a dim corona out of his thick omni-directional hair. His lips were sucked in and his face upturned at a diagonal. Streaks of tears flowed from his eyes down into the timber-line-like break between his soft goggle protected skin and his dry, cattle-driver face, which soaked up the moisture. He sniffled.

Did the waiter mean something by what he said, I wondered? There’s the hypothesis, I thought. I excused myself from the table, taking with me the empty bowl, save for some remainder sauce, and the empty shells. I brought them outside to the back patio of the Coveted Cove and set them down on the rail that overlooked the sea. The sun was gone; had I chased it away? The patio was empty, the air was still. I stuck my finger down my throat to tickle my gag and out came islands of chewed seafood in an opalescent ocean of red wine. 

That’s it, I thought. Hypothesis graduated to theory. I put the shells into the bowl. I’ve got it.

I let the pride slowly build, almost repressing it for to make it more pleasurable. I wanted to hold the news for Mandy, starve him of it for just a little while so it would be sweeter, but when I turned around he was standing 5 feet away with his hands behind in his back, one leg buckled inward and his lips still sucked in. Only this time he was modestly trying to hold back a beaming smile. He let it go and showed his great white teeth.

"By cove, I’ve got it!" I said.

"I knew you would!" Mandy said, then grabbed me by the shirt-sleeves and planted a sweet wine kiss on my lips. 

He grabbed my hand and ran us out of the restaurant and to his Cesna Citation. We flew back to my house, plane and occupants buzzing in shared elation. I was happy for me, for the possibility of a great invention; but I was swollen with a feeling of vicarious accomplishment for Mandy; not so happy that I gave him hope as for his hope itself. 

Mandy looked like he was flying a plane for the first time. He forgot to put on his goggles. He was bouncing in his seat, back leaning forward off the seat as if it would siphon his whole world if he rested. He looked at the sky around us, communicating on another plane with the clouds, telling them he would soon know them.

He would be right.

##

As in many cases, the solution was a simple one. The last thing to be sucked into the implosion would be the container itself. Calculate how far from the epicenter to place hexagonal walls so that they are just close enough to be attracted but not close enough to be compromised; and when they meet, they will interlock. Sure, there are more calculations involved, simple if not tedious crap, logistics, like how thick should the lining be, how many, made from what, and so on; that is why we have interns. A few controlled tests succeeded and we went Texas-sized cloud hunting. 

I suppose I should just epilogue this, for I have gone on too long. So I shall do so with what can probably only be a hypothesis, and one which can never be proven or disproven with any certainty, a place scientists don’t like to concede exists. 

We scoured international waters for legal and safety reasons and because the vast ocean is a breeding ground for cumulonimbi Texan in scale. The enterprise was a costly one, convoluted in logistics, frantic in operation and calibration and with only small windows of opportunity without having to pack it all up and move it all a hundred miles in any given direction. I was hundreds of miles from the custom made Vikuum, monitoring the placement of hexagons. The Vikuum was to be fired up into the air when it was at roughly the center of the cloud structure and then be detonated. Satellite boats floating at specified distances and each had a wall-piece of the “container” the size of bass drum hovering at various altitudes, tethered as they were to small zeppelins. Airplanes buzzed around, we all waited for the cloud to move into position like a cartoon calamity over a black X or red target. Mandy was alone in his Cesna with the control switch.

It happened so fast. It looked like Armageddon, like the formation of a star in our own sky. Mandy gave us no countdown, just yelled over the radio to ready ourselves and then the flash and some of the boats capsized because of the rushing wind that came to fill the void the Vikuum had just created and the water swelled high into the air under the device like a huge stalagmite but stopped before the epicenter, as we had calculated, and the walls collided and clasped into jewel that sat atop the crag of water which swirled in the rush of incoming air, tornado-like, until the force of the spin ripped it apart and sent the water back into the ocean like a million meteorites. Tsunamis roared away in ripples, capsizing some boats and re-capsizing others, each ripple the lesser progeny of the one before until finally the ordeal ended and the sea was smooth and sky bright, corrugated with distended streaks of residual cloud quickly being harried by the wind. The sky had cried and gone into that state of exhausted melancholy and it all took about an hour. Several hours later after implementing the emergency procedures, which we had readied profusely, we all radioed one another to confirm that all were all right and all were fine for having stayed far enough away except for Mandy who did not radio back to us at all. Our radars found one beacon, which we quickly hunted down. It was our box sitting at the bottom of the ocean, far beyond our reach and in it, we suppose, we hypothesize, a man and his Cesna and the clouds he chased.

 
 
